index.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
root: .  # Is the only page that doesn't follow the pattern /:path/index.html
permalink: index.html  # Is the only page that doesn't follow the pattern /:path/index.html
boxId: kweltidiq4bv1m9ow12prsuo9x2espsd
---


-------------------------------------------
Developing and managing efficient and effective database applications requires understanding the fundamentals of database management systems, techniques for the design of databases, and principles of
database administration. This workshop is designed to provide a foundation in data management concepts and database systems. It includes basics of databases, representing information with the relational database model and manipulating data with MS Access. Also. few exercises to practice your understanding

We will be using the Microsoft Access tool for designing and creating our own databases, along with designing queries for data manipulation. The MS access tool will be free for all UIC students and the installation for the tool will be provided in the Setup page.

{% comment %} briefly list workshop goals below - should be the same as the objectives from each workshop section (also repeated in the workshop overview) {% endcomment %}

## Workshop goals
- To get familiarize with the concepts of databases.
- To build a basic understanding of Entity-Relationship Models.
- To execute queries using MS Access

<br>
> ## Pre-requisites
> There are no pre-requisites for this workshop, though basic understanding of working with data and statistics is recommended.
>
{: .prereq}

## Workshop Content

| Section    | Overview | Time Estimate |
| ------- | ---------- |
|[Setup](https://uic-library.github.io/Databases-Intro/00-setup/index.html)    | download and setup required software. Download data files/other required set up files|0:10 min|
|[Intro to Database](https://uic-library.github.io/Databases-Intro/01-introduction/index.html)| To understand the concepts of databases| 0:12 min|
|[Introduction to ER Model](https://uic-library.github.io/Databases-Intro/02-ERmodel/index.html)| To get familiarized with the concepts of Relational DBMS and ER Model | 0:20 min|
|[Introduction to MS Access](https://uic-library.github.io/Databases-Intro/03-MSAccess/index.html)| Introduction to MS Access application and manipulating data using MS Access | 0:45 min|

{% comment %}
## Workshop Recording

{% include box_player.html id=page.boxId %}
{% endcomment %}

## Survey

Thank you for attending this workshop or reading through the workshop material! If you could take 3-5 min to [respond to our survey](https://uic.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_5bYL8vP2EqGbAmW), we can continue to improve this workshop. We appreciate any and all feedback!


## Next Up...
Check out these workshops after you've completed this one:
1. [Introduction to SQL](https://uic-library.github.io/SQL-Intro/)
2. [SQL Advanced]()

Commit message:

Commit from local system. Index and setup page

index.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
root: .  # Is the only page that doesn't follow the pattern /:path/index.html
permalink: index.html  # Is the only page that doesn't follow the pattern /:path/index.html
boxId: kweltidiq4bv1m9ow12prsuo9x2espsd
---


-------------------------------------------
With a wide range of applications and increasing demand, SQL is one of the most popular skills that recruiters are looking for. Level up your understanding of SQL, to use advanced features of SQL to retrieve meaningful data efficiently and draw insightful conclusions. This workshop is designed to increase your understanding of SQL and introduce you to advanced topics in SQL like Functions, Aggregations, Statements, GroupBy and Window Functions with hands-on examples.

We will be using W3School's SQL editor for implementing the SQL queries on predefined databases present in the editor. W3Shcool's SQL editor is a open source online editor and is available for everyone for free of cost.

{% comment %} briefly list workshop goals below - should be the same as the objectives from each workshop section (also repeated in the workshop overview) {% endcomment %}

## Workshop goals
- To get familiarize with the Advanced concepts and keywords of SQL
- To build advance understanding of various features in SQL

<br>
> ## Pre-requisites
> __STOP:__ before starting this workshop, please attend the following Digital Scholarship Lab workshop(s) before completing this one:
> * [Introduction to SQL](https://uic-library.github.io/SQL-Intro/)  
>   
> __OR__ make sure you're comfortable with the following concepts (study suggestions in parentheses)  
>
> * SQL ([resource 1]())
>
{: .prereq}


## Workshop Content

| Section    | Overview | Time Estimate |
| ------- | ---------- |
|[Setup](https://uic-library.github.io/Databases-Intro/00-setup/index.html)    | download and setup required software. Download data files/other required set up files|0:10 min|
|[Selection Queries](https://uic-library.github.io/Databases-Intro/01-introduction/index.html)| Review of basic SQL queries and introduction to advanced queries and keywords| 0:15 min|
|[Aggregate Function](https://uic-library.github.io/Databases-Intro/02-ERmodel/index.html)|Introduction to Aggregate Functions | 0:10 min|
|[Conditional Functions](https://uic-library.github.io/Databases-Intro/03-MSAccess/index.html)| Introduction to Conditional Functions | 0:15 min|
|[Window Function](https://uic-library.github.io/Databases-Intro/03-MSAccess/index.html)| Introduction to Window Functions | 0:10 min|

{% comment %}
## Workshop Recording

{% include box_player.html id=page.boxId %}
{% endcomment %}

## Survey

Thank you for attending this workshop or reading through the workshop material! If you could take 3-5 min to [respond to our survey](https://uic.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_5bYL8vP2EqGbAmW), we can continue to improve this workshop. We appreciate any and all feedback!
